Okay, so let's talk about the
practicalities of doing usability testing,
whether you're doing it remote
usability testing in person
facilitated non-facilitated.
There's obviously some preparation
that needs to be done.
So I want to talk you through
some of the preparation if you've
done usability testing you have
nobody else, yeah, you've done some.
So a little bit maybe
yeah okay fair enough, so
it it takes a bit of practice and
you kind of find your way and and
it's a difficult one in some ways this
is obviously facilitated unfacilitated
it's a different ball game but you kind of
got you've got to do it your way, right?
Because obviously my personality
is different to yours and
different people do it in different ways.
But there are some practicalities you need
to consider, if you're going to do it in
person, right, which probably you're not
but for complete sake, I should probably
include that If you can do it in person,
you're gonna need a quiet private room.
There's nothing worse than doing usability
testing in any kind of open planned
office because it's very kind of makes
participants very self-conscious and
it's just horrible to do.
You're gonna need an appropriate
internet-enabled device.
I know that sounds stupid, but it's
amazing how often you don't check that
the internet is working before it
starts and it goes horribly wrong.
You'll need a clock or a watch so
you can keep an eye on the time and
don't take up too much people's time.
All obvious stuff, but it's so easy to
overlook this thing these things and
you need the ability to take notes.
On that regards, if you're going
to do in-person usability testing,
and if you don't have a good screen
recording app, and I'm going to come on to
that in just a second, well,
I'll put it up now, screen recording app,
then you might want a second person
in there to actually take notes.
I mean, you could do things like
feed it through to another room and
have to wait mirrors, one way mirrors,
and all that rubbish.
But if you don't have the luxury
of that kind of stuff,
then just have a person sitting in
the corner you point to them and
say they're taking notes and then you can
focus on actually facilitating this test.
But it's a lot easier if you've got a good
screen recording app look back that I
mentioned before, but because then
you can just enjoy the session and
it's all transcribed, and
you can look back at it afterwards.
Obviously, however you do it, you've
got to plan your tasks and scenarios.
And so basically, the three pieces
of advice I give around this kind
of thing is you start by identifying
to find the task you want users to
test based on the questions you have,
right?
So if your question is I'm worried
about the checkout process, right?
Then you're going to start with a task
which involves someone going through
the checkout process, right?
So you need to know what those are,
and what you're going.
Gonna do is you're going to word those
as tasks that people can complete.
The second thing you've got to
do is prioritize your tasks,
as you probably won't get through
every one of them, right?
Oftentimes, people have
far too many tasks,
partly because they're afraid of running
out of content, things to do with people.
But if you prioritize them,
then you can have some nice to
have ones if you get to them.
But if you don't, it's not the end
of the world kind of thing.
And then the final thing that you need
to do is transform those tasks into
scenarios that a user has to complete.
So it's a lot easier.
Let me give you a real
example because your task
might be make an appointment to
see a skin therapist, right?
That's the thing you want someone to do,
but
it works a lot better if you kind of
word it as a scenario because then
it's easier to avoid keywords
that are in the interface, right.
So you're unhappy with your appearance,
your skin lately and
have decided to have a facial.
You go to a website looking to
book a time for a treatment.
So I've managed to avoid the word skin
therapist and the word appointment just
but still communicated
the essence of what's going on.
So that's by wording it as a scenario,
it just makes it all a bit more A,
people can associate with it more, and
B, it allows you to reduce the amount of
bias that you're introducing
into your questions.
The other thing is, so
you basically take all of your tasks,
you turn them all into scenarios like
that, prioritize them, job done.
But it's worth preparing a bit of
a welcome if you're gonna be doing
a facilitated session, right?
If you can do it in person, please offer
them refreshments at the beginning.
It's a really great way of relaxing
people, making them feel appreciated.
If you're doing it remotely, I normally
make some self-deprecating joke or
they're something else at the beginning
to make them laugh and relax them,
you need to find your own thing to do
that, whatever works with you, but
the aim is to relax people up front.
Then I always introduce myself and
explain the session's agenda and
how long it's gonna be, and
I'll come on to that in a minute.
And this next one is
a really important one,
emphasize that you're testing the site,
not the participant.
So there's no wrong answers.
People get really nervous that like
they're being tested in some way.
And yet there is a right way of doing it.
And they'll say things like,
am doing it right?
And it's like well, yes,
[LAUGH] whatever you're doing is, right.
I also always ask them to think out loud.
You say that they need to,
you encourage them to in particular
say what they're seeing.
Cuz you don't know what
they're looking at, so
I'm currently looking at the whatever.
I asked them also to express
what they're thinking and
what they're trying to do.
And also what they what they're
gonna do next before they do it is
often good as well.
Six Just getting them talking out loud.
So if ever they go quiet, ask them what
they're thinking to get them going again.
Make it clear that you're not gonna get
offended by anything negative they say.
I again, reoccurring theme
I've with me I lie, right?
I regularly tell people that I wasn't in
any way in four Involved in producing
this, so you're not going to offend me
in the slightest if you don't like it,
it is useful.
It's a useful thing to do in that
situation because a lot of people don't
like to offend.
Certainly in Britain,
Americans might be different.
I'm not making any judgments.
Next up, ask for
permission to record them and
stress that the recordings
aren't going to be used for
any other purpose because again, people
are worried about their privacy, etc.
So it's worth doing that.
If you ever deal with any
kind of vulnerable group
that's particularly important.
I did it once with,
you kind of abused women that had
escaped difficult home situations and
stuff like that.
And they're really, as you can imagine,
very sensitive that their information
of where they are now
might in any way leak out.
So just bear things like that in mind.
And let them know if any additional
stakeholders are interested.
Coders are gonna be observing
from another room, right?
Because that's a bit weird as well.
It's a weird situation you got to do
what you can to make people feel relaxed
basically.
Of course, that's all facilitated
if you're gonna be there.
If you're not,
then it's a bit of a different scenario.